generated/questions/aave-other-features.md, before:

## Header
This is the course header. This will be added on top of every page. Go to [DoDAO.io](https://www.dodao.io) to know more.

 ---
 
 ## Other Features of AAVE
 
 
---

##### What are terms of use associated with flash loans?  

- [x]  Must be repaid within one transaction
- [x]  No collateral and Instantaneous
- [ ]  Incase of lack of repayment, user is fined
- [ ]  Needs to be collateraized compulsorily
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Flash loans require collateral and Instantaneously sanctioned, must be repaid within one transaction.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### Why is a fee added to each transaction on the blockchain?  

- [ ]  For the protocol to make profits
- [x]  To incentivize the miners
- [ ]  To refund the user on a later date
- [ ]  Transaction fee is paid to banks
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: The fee is added in order to incentivize the miners.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### Which of these functions allow the borrower to borrow from a single reserve?  

- [ ]  `flashLoanBorrow`

- [ ]  `flashLoan`

- [x]  `flashLoanSimple`

- [ ]  `flashLoanSingle`

  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: flashLoanSimple, allows user to borrow flash loans from a single reserve alone.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### What could be the possible causes of transaction reverting after a flash loan?  

- [x]  The amount owed + fee is not paid back due to lack of balance or approval
- [ ]  The flash loan is undercollateralized
- [ ]  The blockchain is never reverted
- [x]  Collateral or credit delegation is absent to open a debt position at the end of a flashLoan
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: The possible causes could be amount owed + fee is not paid back due to lack of balance or approval or Collateral or credit delegation is absent to open a debt position at the end of a flashLoan.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### Flash loans allow users to do which of the following?  

- [x]  To liquidate debt position on user’s behalf and avoid hefty liquidation fees
- [x]  To swap collateral in a debt position
- [x]  Do cost-free trades on asset exchange platforms
- [ ]  To borrow any amount of money for use until the user feels the need to repay the loan
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Flash loans allow the user cost-free trades on asset exchange platform, to swap collateral in a debt position, and to liquidate debt position on user’s behalf and avoid hefty liquidation fees.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### Select the benefits AAVE portals  

- [x]  By reducing liquidity limitations of l2-l2 bridges, the portal will allow for a seamless experience for users
- [x]  Portals make alt Evm L1 chains attractive and easier to access
- [ ]  There is no way to confirm the trustworthiness of the validators who help transfer assets in portals
- [x]  Portal's feature seamlessly allows assets to flow between Aave markets on different networks
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Portal's feature seamlessly allows assets to flow between Aave markets on different networks, portals make alt Evm L1 chains attractive and easier to access By reducing liquidity limitations of l2-l2 bridges, the portal will allow for a seamless experience for users.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### Aave portals technology makes use of bridges (T/F)  

- [x]  True

- [ ]  False

  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Aave portals are just a feature to transfer assets efficiently, but we need bridging protocols to transfer our assets. There are no other core protocols for directly using Aave portals from the user end.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### What are aTokens?  

- [ ]  aTokens are tokens given to user as incentive for being liquidity provider
- [ ]  Aave's version of an already existing currency whose value is more than the original currency
- [x]  Aave’s version of an already existing crypto currency, minted and burnt upon supply and withdrawal of the original currency.
- [ ]  It is a new crypto currency that is independant of any other crypto currency
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Aave’s version of an already existing crypto currency. They are minted and burnt upon supply and withdrawal of the original currency. For example, aDai.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### How are aave portals beneficial to the DeFi/ Blockchain ecosystem?  

- [ ]  They provide a completely new protocol for users to be able to interact with different chains
- [x]  Provides a more secure, faster and cheaper alternative to blockchain bridges, making flow of assets across blockchains easier
- [x]  Helps increase usership of EVM Layer 1 chains
- [x]  Helps increase the user experience of the blockchain network by providing fast and scalable solutions to their issues related to transactions
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Provides a more secure, faster and cheaper alternative to blockchain bridges, making flow of assets across blockchains easier. Helps increase usership of EVM Layer 1 chains. Helps increase the user experience of the blockchain network by providing fast and scalable solutions to their issues related to transactions.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### What are the disadvantages of using blockchain bridges?  

- [x]  Bugs in smart contracts
- [x]  It is very new and unpredictable
- [x]  No way to confirm the trustworthiness of the validators who help transfer assets
- [ ]  It is very slow to transfer assets
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Disadvantages of bridges are that there is no way to confirm the trustworthiness of the validators who help transfer assets, it is very new and unpredictable and there could be bugs in smart contracts

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### What purpose does the “hop” serve?  

- [ ]  It is a pool of assets sent by users to be transferred to another chain
- [ ]  It used to store assets supplied by multiple users in a pool, and then to batch them together
- [x]  Uses aTokens to withdraw funds from its liquidity pool to transfers assets across blockchains
- [ ]  It is an alias for "bridging protocol"
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Uses aTokens to withdraw funds from its liquidity pool to transfers assets across blockchains.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### How is a portal transaction more secure than one that is done using bridges directly?  

- [ ]  They have bugs in smart contracts
- [ ]  It is very slow to transfer assets, making it more vulnerable to attacks
- [x]  They only use verified bridges
- [ ]  It is unpredictable
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Aave portals only used verified bridges, and it not possible for users to confirm trustworthiness of a bridge by their own.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### What purpose does the “batch” serve?  

- [x]  It used to store assets supplied by multiple users in a pool, and then to batch them together
- [ ]  It is a pool of assets sent by users to be transferred to another chain
- [ ]  Uses aTokens to withdraw funds from its liquidity pool to transfers assets across blockchains
- [ ]  It is an alias for "bridging protocol"
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Uses aTokens to withdraw funds from its liquidity pool to transfers assets across blockchains.

Sub Topics: aave-portals

Commit message:

Resolved a few comments
Resolved "true" "false"
Used pepper type for better wording in explanations
Improved wording for the "liquidity in layer-2 blockchain" option

generated/questions/aave-other-features.md, after:

## Header
This is the course header. This will be added on top of every page. Go to [DoDAO.io](https://www.dodao.io) to know more.

 ---
 
 ## Other Features of AAVE
 
 
---

##### What are terms of use associated with flash loans?  

- [x]  Must be repaid within one transaction
- [x]  No collateral and Instantaneous
- [ ]  Incase of lack of repayment, user is fined
- [ ]  Needs to be collateraized compulsorily
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Flash loans require collateral and Instantaneously sanctioned, must be repaid within one transaction.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### Why is a fee added to each transaction on the blockchain?  

- [ ]  For the protocol to make profits
- [x]  To incentivize the miners
- [ ]  To refund the user on a later date
- [ ]  Transaction fee is paid to banks
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: The fee is added in order to incentivize the miners.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### Which of these functions allow the borrower to borrow from a single reserve?  

- [ ]  `flashLoanBorrow`

- [ ]  `flashLoan`

- [x]  `flashLoanSimple`

- [ ]  `flashLoanSingle`

  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: flashLoanSimple, allows user to borrow flash loans from a single reserve alone.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### What could be the possible causes of transaction reverting after a flash loan?  

- [x]  The amount owed + fee is not paid back due to lack of balance or approval
- [ ]  The flash loan is undercollateralized
- [ ]  The blockchain is never reverted
- [x]  Collateral or credit delegation is absent to open a debt position at the end of a flashLoan
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: The possible causes could be amount owed + fee is not paid back due to lack of balance or approval or Collateral or credit delegation is absent to open a debt position at the end of a flashLoan.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### Flash loans allow users to do which of the following?  

- [x]  To liquidate debt position on user’s behalf and avoid hefty liquidation fees
- [x]  To swap collateral in a debt position
- [x]  Do cost-free trades on asset exchange platforms
- [ ]  To borrow any amount of money for use until the user feels the need to repay the loan
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Flash loans allow the user cost-free trades on asset exchange platform, to swap collateral in a debt position, and to liquidate debt position on user’s behalf and avoid hefty liquidation fees.

Sub Topics: flash-loans
 

---

##### Select the benefits AAVE portals  

- [x]  Portals provide liquidity to l2-l2 bridges, which improves the user experience on the blockchain ecosystem
- [x]  Portals make alt Evm L1 chains attractive and easier to access
- [ ]  There is no way to confirm the trustworthiness of the validators who help transfer assets in portals
- [x]  Portal's feature seamlessly allows assets to flow between Aave markets on different networks
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Portal's feature seamlessly allows assets to flow between Aave markets on different networks, portals make alt Evm L1 chains attractive and easier to access By reducing liquidity limitations of l2-l2 bridges, the portal will allow for a seamless experience for users.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### Aave portals technology makes use of bridges (T/F)  

- [x]  True
- [ ]  False
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Aave portals are just a feature to transfer assets efficiently, but we need bridging protocols to transfer our assets. There are no other core protocols for directly using Aave portals from the user end.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### What are aTokens?  

- [ ]  aTokens are tokens given to user as incentive for being liquidity provider
- [ ]  Aave's version of an already existing currency whose value is more than the original currency
- [x]  Aave’s version of an already existing crypto currency, minted and burnt upon supply and withdrawal of the original currency.
- [ ]  It is a new crypto currency that is independant of any other crypto currency
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Aave’s version of an already existing crypto currency. They are minted and burnt upon supply and withdrawal of the original currency. For example, aDai.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### How are aave portals beneficial to the DeFi/ Blockchain ecosystem?  

- [ ]  They provide a completely new protocol for users to be able to interact with different chains
- [x]  Provides a more secure, faster and cheaper alternative to blockchain bridges, making flow of assets across blockchains easier
- [x]  Helps increase usership of EVM Layer 1 chains
- [x]  Helps increase the user experience of the blockchain network by providing fast and scalable solutions to their issues related to transactions
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Provides a more secure, faster and cheaper alternative to blockchain bridges, making flow of assets across blockchains easier. Helps increase usership of EVM Layer 1 chains. Helps increase the user experience of the blockchain network by providing fast and scalable solutions to their issues related to transactions.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### What are the disadvantages of using blockchain bridges?  

- [x]  Bugs in smart contracts
- [x]  It is very new and unpredictable
- [x]  No way to confirm the trustworthiness of the validators who help transfer assets
- [ ]  It is very slow to transfer assets
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Disadvantages of bridges are that there is no way to confirm the trustworthiness of the validators who help transfer assets, it is very new and unpredictable and there could be bugs in smart contracts

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### What purpose does the “hop” serve?  

- [ ]  It is a pool of assets sent by users to be transferred to another chain
- [ ]  It used to store assets supplied by multiple users in a pool, and then to batch them together
- [x]  Uses aTokens to withdraw funds from its liquidity pool to transfers assets across blockchains
- [ ]  It is an alias for "bridging protocol"
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Uses aTokens to withdraw funds from its liquidity pool to transfers assets across blockchains.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### How is a portal transaction more secure than one that is done using bridges directly?  

- [ ]  They have bugs in smart contracts
- [ ]  It is very slow to transfer assets, making it more vulnerable to attacks
- [x]  They only use verified bridges
- [ ]  It is unpredictable
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Aave portals only used verified bridges, and it not possible for users to confirm trustworthiness of a bridge by their own.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
 

---

##### What purpose does the “batch” serve?  

- [x]  It used to store assets supplied by multiple users in a pool, and then to batch them together
- [ ]  It is a pool of assets sent by users to be transferred to another chain
- [ ]  Uses aTokens to withdraw funds from its liquidity pool to transfers assets across blockchains
- [ ]  It is an alias for "bridging protocol"
  
Hint: noHint
         
Explanation: Uses aTokens to withdraw funds from its liquidity pool to transfers assets across blockchains.

Sub Topics: aave-portals
